[Music]
do you ever want to curl up under a warm
blanket and sleep through the freezing
winter just like bears actually many
animals do that but unfortunately it
doesn't work with us humans or does it
you know I'd like to give that a shot
sometime you go to sleep wake up and
winners over hmm
I'm really hungry well we know one man
who survived the cold for over three
weeks just like that but let's not get
ahead of ourselves imagine you're going
on a picnic with your colleagues to make
the get-together even better you choose
to meet in the mountains what could be
better than a delicious meal in the open
air with an incredible view well that's
exactly what Mitsu taka Oh Sheikh oh she
thought on October 7th 2006 that day he
went up Mount Roco to join his buddies
from work this mountain chain in Japan
is a popular attraction for climbers and
tourists and for good reason the view it
offers is just amazing if you climb
there you can see both Kobe and Osaka
from above and they're two of the
largest cities in the country
so after Mitsu taka and his friends had
a really good time and we're done with
the grilling they decided to come down
and go home for that they used a cable
car after all that was how they got to
the peak in the first place the trolleys
relatively cheap it's 590 yen or
approximately five dollars and fifty
cents for a person it's fast the ride to
Kobe takes about 10 minutes and it's a
good way to take in the beautiful
mountain scenery it seemed like a
perfect way to end their day everyone
felt that way
well except Mitsu taka he came up with
an even better idea what if he stayed
and found his way down all by himself
that's why he said goodbye to his
partners and hit the road he didn't know
it yet but that plan was about to change
his whole life at first everything was
just fine
he was walking through the beautiful
hills thinking about the nice day he had
and of course all that
on a full stomach this was important
because he wouldn't have a chance to eat
properly anytime soon but hang on
perhaps you wonder what could have
happened to a 35 year old healthy man
who was just returning home from a
harmless party with his coworkers well
something that could occur to anyone who
tried to get out of the woods without
quite knowing the right path at some
point that day he simply got lost I'm
sure you know that in cases like this
it's only right to find a river and
follow it in the same direction as
current that could lead you to a bigger
pond or a town where you could ask local
people for help
surely Mitsu taka knew that too and he
was lucky enough to happen upon a stream
but when he tried to cross it he slipped
and fell and the worst part was he broke
his pelvis which made it almost
impossible to walk normally lost in the
mountains with a fresh injury and night
starting to fall on top of that I can
only imagine how Mitsu taka felt as time
passed the second day of his adventures
began a bottle with a little water left
and a barbecue sauce were the only
things he had but apart from being
thirsty and hungry he must have been
pretty exhausted by the time he reached
a meadow he laid down to rest there he
recalled later that the Sun was out he
was in a field and he felt very
comfortable that was the last thing he'd
remembered apparently he drifted off
after that I hope he at least had the
sweetest of dreams because his slumber
lasted far longer than your average
weekend sleep in it was only by sheer
luck that on October 31st a hiker was
tramping through the area when he
stumbled upon a man it was of course
none other than Mitsu taka he had a
barely palpable pulse his organs were
hardly functioning and his body
temperature was no higher than 72
degrees Fahrenheit but what was most
important and what shocked experts was
that he was alive
he spent 24 days wounded without food
water or any protection from the rain
and cold and in spite of everything he
was still breathing and his heart didn't
stop beating I'd say it was a real
miracle doctors explained that while he
lost consciousness at some point his
survival instincts were very much alive
even more so to protect itself
his body entered a state similar to
hibernation that's right he practically
slept through more than three weeks
almost like a hedgehog or a squirrel but
to be honest it's slightly more
complicated than an ordinary nap as you
probably know we live on energy that we
get from food and the process that turns
every single meal we have into energy is
metabolism when you don't eat for some
time your body starts to burn calories
slower to conserve energy
since minsu taka clearly had nothing to
nibble on for over 20 days his
metabolism decreased to a minimum that's
when the big cookout he had earlier came
in handy his own temperature dropped as
the temperature outside eventually fell
to 50 degrees Fahrenheit as well his
heart rate weakened and his breathing
tapered off in other words his whole
body had slowed down just to get through
this after two months in the hospital in
Kobe he was as good as new
dr. Shinichi sato who treated him
claimed that his brain had also
recovered 100% as if nothing had really
happened there were of course some
people who struggled to believe that
Mitsu taka got off that easy after all
we don't know for sure how long he was I
thermic but most scientists were excited
because it was the first known example
of a human going through hibernation
this mechanism had worked for ages and
animals once we're sure that we're also
capable of slowing down our biological
processes to preserve life we'll have
plenty of opportunities to use it you
may be surprised but one of them is
space travel we've all seen it in dozens
of sci-fi movies a spacecraft with
sleeping people on board waiting to wake
up when the ship
reaches its destination if you really
think about it hibernation could be the
key to exploring the universe in reality
let's say we've managed to build a
machine that could take us to Mars or
Jupiter but how do we get enough water
and food for the crew considering that
the flight could take years and how can
we sustain their overall physical and
mental health during the travel it would
really help to solve these problems if
we learn to freeze up metabolism for the
long term as far as more down-to-earth
issues are concerned it could also be
applied in medicine often when someone
needs a transplant they have to get on
the list for a donor
if hibernation was possible they could
just pass through the waiting time
without a greater threat to their life
the same goes for the treatment of any
patients in the event of an emergency
doctors have to make the right diagnosis
and fix the problem at hand in a matter
of minutes or even seconds if new
techniques gave them more time it could
save millions of lives in fact a
procedure that somewhat resembles
hibernation has been used by doctors for
decades I'm talking about TTM or
targeted temperature management usually
it involves cases of cardiac arrest when
a patient's heart had stopped and they
didn't regain consciousness physicians
would intentionally cool down their body
to a temperature as low as 90 degrees
Fahrenheit most often it stays that way
for 24 hours and after that doctors
slowly rewarm it this whole process
prevents tissue injury when blood flow
is blocked
maybe researchers will take this
technique further to simulate
hibernation or who knows maybe they'll
come up with something new in any case
most likely we'll have to wait years
before we'll be able to hibernate but
thanks to Mitsui tanka Oh Chico she now
we know that our bodies can do a lot
more than we thought before so how about
you what technology of the future do you
dream of let me know down in the
comments hey if you learned something
new today then give this video a like
and share with a friend but don't go
hibernate just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out just click on this left or
right video and enjoy stay on the bright
side of life